README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">qm-graphql-todomvc</h1>

This project demonstrates how to build a GraphQL API using the [quick-microservice-rs][qm-github]
crate.

The API is loosely based on the [TodoMVC][todomvc-spec]
project and provides all necessary endpoints to be used as GraphQL backend for
[TodoMVC][todomvc-spec] apps.

## Quick Microservice components

This project uses the following [QM crate][qm-crate] features.

### `server`

Used for the server configuration.\
The configuration must be done trough environment variables with the `SERVER_` prefix.

Available variables are `SERVER_APP_NAME`, `SERVER_HOST`, `SERVER_PORT`.

## Running locally

To run the project locally, execute

```shell
cargo run -p qgt-server
```

or build the binary and run that directly

```shell
cargo build && ./target/debug/qgt-server
```

<!-- link references -->

[todomvc-spec]: https://github.com/tastejs/todomvc/blob/master/app-spec.md#functionality
[qm-github]: https://github.com/hd-gmbh-dev/quick-microservice-rs
[qm-crate]: https://crates.io/crates/qm

Commit message:

feat: add database and initialize it

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">qm-graphql-todomvc</h1>

This project demonstrates how to build a GraphQL API using the [quick-microservice-rs][qm-github]
crate.

The API is loosely based on the [TodoMVC][todomvc-spec]
project and provides all necessary endpoints to be used as GraphQL backend for
[TodoMVC][todomvc-spec] apps.

## Quick Microservice components

This project uses the following [QM crate][qm-crate] features.

### `server`

Used for the server configuration.\
The configuration must be done trough environment variables with the `SERVER_` prefix.

Available variables are: `SERVER_HOST`, `SERVER_PORT`, `SERVER_APP_NAME`

### `mongodb`

Available variables are: `MONGODB_HOST`, `MONGODB_PORT`, `MONGODB_DATABASE`, `MONGODB_USERNAME`,
`MONGODB_PASSWORD`, `MONGODB_ROOT_DATABASE`, `MONGODB_ROOT_USERNAME`, `MONGODB_ROOT_PASSWORD`,
`MONGODB_SHARDED`

> [!NOTE]
> The database uses the `SERVER_APP_NAME` value to identify the application in the client logs.
> See also [Connection Options](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/rust/current/fundamentals/connections/connection-options/#overview)

## Running locally

To run the project locally, execute

```shell
cargo run -p qgt-server
```

or build the binary and run that directly

```shell
cargo build && ./target/debug/qgt-server
```

<!-- link references -->

[todomvc-spec]: https://github.com/tastejs/todomvc/blob/master/app-spec.md#functionality
[qm-github]: https://github.com/hd-gmbh-dev/quick-microservice-rs
[qm-crate]: https://crates.io/crates/qm
